in some of the earlier videos I was
talking about PCA as a compression
algorithm where you may have say a
thousand dimensional data and compress
it to a hundred dimensional feature
vector or have three dimensional data
and compress it to a two dimensional
representation so if this is a
compression algorithm there should be a
way to go back from this compressed
representation back to an approximation
of your original high dimensional data
so given Zi which may be a hundred
dimensional how do you go back to your
original representation X I which was
maybe a thousand dimensional in this
video I'd like to describe how to do
that in the PCA algorithm we may have an
example like this so maybe that's one
example x1 maybe that's my example x2
and what we do is we take these examples
and we project them onto this one
dimensional surface and then now we need
to use only a real number say z1 to
specify the location of these points
after they've been projected onto this 1
dimensional surface so give it a point
like this given the point Z 1 how can we
go back to this original two dimensional
space and in particular given a point Z
which is an R can we map this back to
some approximate representation X and r2
of whatever the original value of the
data was so whereas Z equals you reduce
transpose X if you want to go in the
opposite direction the equation for that
is we're going to write X aprox
equals you reduce times Z and again just
to check the dimensions here you reduce
is going to be an N by K dimensional
vector Z is going to be a K by 1
dimensional vector so when you multiply
these out that's going to be n by 1 and
so x aprox
is going to be an N dimensional vector
and so the intent of PCA that is if the
square projection error is not too big
it is that this extra prompt will be
close to whatever was the original value
of x that you had used to derive Z in
the first place the show picture what
this looks like this is what it looks
like what you get back of this procedure
are points that lie on the projection of
that onto the Green Line so to take our
early example if we started off with
this value of x 1 and we got this value
of Z 1 if you plug Z 1 through this
formula to get X 1 and props then this
point here that would be X 1 a props
which is going to be in R 2 and so and
similarly if you do the same procedure
this would be X 2 approach and you know
that's a pretty decent approximation to
the original data so that's how you go
back from your low dimensional
representation Z back to an uncompressed
representation of the data you get back
an approximation to your original data X
and we also call this process
reconstruction of the original data when
we think of trying to reconstruct the
original value of x from the compressed
representation
so given an unlabeled data set you now
know how to apply PCA and take your high
dimensional features X and map it to
this lower dimensional representations D
and from this video hopefully you now
also know how to take these low
representations D and map it back up to
an approximation of your original high
dimensional data now that you know how
to implement and apply PCA would like to
do Nyx's talk about some of the
mechanics of how to actually use PCA
well and in particular in the next video
like to talk about how to choose K which
is how to choose the dimension of this
reduce representation vector z